We are live. Good
morning. Heck of a
weekend. I was uh I believe I had around
10 hours 40 minutes streamed on
Saturday and then on Sunday we ended up
with a whole bunch of issues to fix with
the internet
wiring. We at least have our cluster
machines back up now. so we can get back
to doing some experiments. I'm going to
fix the last two that are still offline
today. But I wanted to start my morning
with um at least a little bit of dev and
a little bit of
research. So the plan for
today, I've got hour and a half now. Uh
I'm probably going to look at a new
paper I've been sent.
to see if it's useful for
RL uses test time training. So, we're
going to look at that, possibly
implement
it. And then after that, we've got stuff
to do on Vrace probably after
breakfast. Got stuff to do on diversity
is all you need. That
algorithm, we got stuff to do on a bunch
of
different Okay.
Let's get the paper
first. What on
earth? People close weird stuff, man.
All right, let's go. So, let me go grab
that paper
thing. Hang on. Let me not show too many
DMs. Just grab this
paper.
Okay. Apparently, this is not the
original, but this has a clearer
description of the
algorithm. So, it's this thing right
here. This is a supposed replacement for
LSTMs. Oops, I also should have my chat
up. Morning
Fox.
Um, so this thing is apparently like a
successor to LSTM sort of. A lot of
those have been tried.
I've also looked into like state based
stuff like Mamba before and I didn't
know if it would be useful, but this
does seem like something that is
fundamentally different and hasn't
really been explored before because they
take gradient steps during the forward
pass. It's kind of
wonky. So, they've got this like input
hidden output, right? But,
uh, they actually do gradient steps in
the forward pass. It's kind of weird.
And this was used recently in I don't
know if you've seen the Tom and Jerry
videos that have been going
around. The videos are like I don't know
what the state of the art in video gen
is like. They don't look good compared
to the original cartoons at all. They
don't really make any sense. But I think
for a coming out of a model this is kind
of insane. This is Nvidia
paper it seems. What's the Stanford
Nvidia? Oh, all the universities.
I guess it's just Nvidia and everyone
interning or
whatever. Okay, let's see
if I think they they're supposed to have
like a code block for this somewhere.
I was told there was like a very simple
code
block. The heck is this
thing? Is this code on GitHub?
Yeah. Okay. There's just a lot of stuff
in there. So, I don't know
where David got this. I don't know where
this thing came from, but I was sent
this. This is like a lot easier,
right? I tried looking at this
yesterday, but I was like totally
exhausted. So, let me see what this is.
They have
Okay, so this thing has a persistent
task which has parameter
KQB. This
[Music]
is where's Q get
used? Oh, it gets in there. Okay, so
this is this attention or is this not
attention?
I don't think this is attention though.
Even though
um really love the hustle, keep up and
one day hi will it be achieved. Thank
you. I mean my goal with puffer is quite
lofty, right? The the point of what I'm
doing here is I saw what reinforcement
learning could do in 2019 and 2020. I
saw where it was going and then everyone
just stopped and started working on
language models.
And like there's nobody doing this work
if I don't do it. So my hope is that I
make reinforcement learning stable,
consistent, successful, and there's a
good chance we will need this on the
path to
AGI. So I want to make sure we don't
lose because we didn't actually do this
stuff.
If you'd asked me a year ago, I didn't
expect that to involve writing like
30,000 lines of C, but here we are. A
senior PhD thesis believe you're on the
right path. Amongst the pioneers of RL
definitely agree. Thank you very
much. I mean, the progress has really
been there. I don't know if you've seen
a lot of the stuff since the thesis
video, but
um I mean this is our 2 release and
we're already way ahead of this in dev,
but like we've got all these
environments. They all run like a
thousand plus times faster than
everything else out there. All these
games and you can just train RL on these
at like a thousand times the speed of
before. It's getting more stable and
more consistent as well. We've run like
20 30,000 experiments in the last few
months. Um really really the pace of
research is picking up because we can
just do everything fast now.
So currently we're the thing that we
hadn't done in this release that we're
now doing in dev is we're going back to
all the old algorithmic advancements
that weren't properly tested from like
2015 through 2022ish.
And um we are actually extensively
validating them and seeing what works
and seeing what doesn't. It's pretty
cool. This is just one potential thing.
I was just linked to this the other day.
This is like a much newer This just came
out, right? I just saw this on Twitter.
Do I know any of these
people? No.
So they remake this learner single
forward pass. That's kind of
weird. And
Starting from current
pars and this has a loss.
Do you actually train this layer like
this? Hang on. Train view label
view. They have out
sequence and then they have
task. Oh no, they use the task. This is
just written weirdly as all. Yeah, this
is just written weirdly. So they
optimize this boss here and then this is
just standard. This one is just
standard. So I think you can kind of
just slot this in, can't you?
I'm looking at this and this does look
obscenely
slow. So, what is this thing supposed to
do?
Um, state train
Train on token and then they
predict. This is such a weird paper.
Like how the heck did they come up with
this? This is like
Like what's even the idea here, right?
state
equals
wait this
is this is not the same as like the
state as it's defined in an LSTM right
so the state is this model okay and then
I guess we could try
this. There's no reason we can't try
this. But then if you're replacing the
LSTM
And I guess it works as a drop in,
doesn't
it? Yeah, it
should. Okay, we can just do this. I
don't see why
not. We'll just do this.
I think we just have to make a ttt
wrapper,
right? It shouldn't even be bad bad at
this.
This LSTM. Okay, this doesn't need a
base class, so we don't need to
I could just implement it the way that
they have it
here. Kind of don't want to though.
Oh yeah. How do we do
um it's supposed to be that the learner
gets reset on each sequence,
right? Yeah. On each sequence.
So I guess that's going to be
like trajectory
segment. I guess we'll have to do it
that way. Yeah.
So let's not do task. Let's do solve.
K
parameter. Oh, it's just
param. How does param get initialized by
default? I don't see any sort of
initialization. Is this pseudo code?
Hang on. I think this is pseudo
code. Yeah, you need to give it data.
layer in
it. Yeah. So our default is orthogonal
and constant. I see.
Is there no
um initial orthogonal
Yeah, it's kind of weird how this pie
portrait does this, but it's no big
deal. It's just a little bit silly and
redundant. Okay.
my own rule
here. We never group that way. Do it
this
way. Okay, that's
fine. So, we have these parameters.
Now we define forward which should be
the same as forward training.
Define forward.
Oh, I don't think you can. Wait. Yeah,
you don't want to have That's
sketchy. Talking with another student.
Hopefully I can bring them on board. E
code somewhere else, right?
Okay, I think I know how you can do
this.
So state can
be and one
Hypo
hyperothermia magnetic nano particle
optimizations. Yep, that sounds like it
would be hard to run fast.
I will tell you it is very hard to do RL
with slow sims. It is much much much
easier when you have fast Sims.
I almost don't know what to do with this
state thing here because
um man
How to
simulate fluids like a
circuit? I do not know about
that. Figuring out how to make Sims
really fast though is useful for a lot
of stuff.
Hypothermia is good early cancer
treatment
particles. Man, sometimes I wish I had a
physics background. Physics is cool.
It's so much harder to just be like
random indie physics researcher though.
like random like AI is one of the only
things where random indie researcher is
actually a legit thing to Okay.
Ah, that's so unfortunate. I can't even
get rid of that bot cuz freaking reream
chat broke.
now works. I still can't get rid of
it. If you have RL
background, well, there's no need to
pivot when I'm solving
Laurel. Let me solve this deal first.
Thank you very much.
What is
F? Oh, model.
Have you thought about the ethics of
popular being used in defense
sims? I
mean, it's just standard dual use,
right? There's no specific
consideration. That's like
pretty as far as things that have dual
use go.
It's like pretty far out
there. I'm also not inherently opposed
to defense work
either. It depends what it's on, right?
like from that one vine. Oh, wait. By
the way, the mug is amazing. It's
comically
large. I have I published on X at one
point. I was doing this thing. I came up
with a thousand calorie recipe where you
could make a mug this size of hot
chocolate that had 1,000 calories and 70
grams of protein.
But for now, it's just T
Okay. So, I just have to add to this the
LSTM wrapper
stuff. Probably should have thought
about that,
huh? I mean, I can probably just copy.
We'll clean it up if uh if this ends up
getting capped.
There's like no way in hell this is
going to be fast, right? I mean,
actually, I take that back. So
theoretically,
right, this could be made to be like
decently
fast. It's one gradient
step. Okay, it's technically possible
that this thing could be
made decently fastish.
get the output of
this. It's going to be something like
this, right?
So any chance you can post
the See, everyone's like, "Oh, that's so
stupid." Actually, can I get the recipe
for that? Yeah, sure. I got you.
I will say it was not the best on my
stomach, but I have a very sensitive
stomach and it wasn't even that
bad. I actually might even start doing
that again. The the main reason I'm not
at the moment is one, it's a lot of
heavy cream and uh two, I'm just not
training hard enough right now where
it's not going to just make me fat. I've
been just doing a lot of work lately. I
you really kind of need to be like going
to the gym and doing a hard hour and a
half workout for it to make sense to be
having this thing. Let me find
it. Where's the search button on?
Uh there's supposed to be a search
button here, isn't
there? There is one on the mobile app.
Like cuz this just searches everyone's
crap. The heck is
it? Go find a thousand
Wait, wait, wait. Does this thing
actually
summarize? Oh, no. This was just some
random post I
made. Yeah, I can't find it either.
Where the hell is
it? Hang on. Maybe I can get it on my
phone. Let me find it. I swear the UI is
different. Like there's
a Yeah. So, when I click the search on
my profile
here, it actually it gives you a
different search. It lets me search my
posts.
Okay. You know what I'm going to do? I'm
going to put it on the
Discord. You can get it
there. Here we
go.
Discord.gg/puffer. Where Where did it
go?
And we get back to
code. I don't know why my Discord is not
opening. Oh, cuz I'm
dumb. There you
go. It's a whole thread. You scroll down
to the bottom of it. Scroll down to the
bottom of it. Like I did I made like
several versions of
it. I was actually like seriously doing
that for a while. It was pretty funny.
It did work. I will tell you it did
work. It's like the only thing I've ever
come up with to consistently put weight
on without stuffing
myself. Bananas, oats,
walnuts. I tried stuff like that and it
wasn't calorie dense enough, right?
because like I'd make a 1,200 calorie
shake or whatever and then I would skip
the next meal because I wouldn't be
hungry enough. So, this is like I could
literally have this thing and then be
hungry in an hour and a
half. So, I specifically made this
recipe for people who it's like you have
trouble putting on weight because you
don't have the
appetite. I actually should totally
start doing that again. I'm like six
pounds underweight right now. I'm trying
to get back up to 190, but I will have
to actually start like lifting way more
seriously again. Otherwise, it just goes
on as
fat. Very soon, very, very soon, we get
to start that arc. But for now, we've
got to make sure we get the puffer
update shipped. This next update is
going to be amazing, but uh it's a heck
of a lot of work.
The only warning I will give you on that
shake is I don't know. I I still could
not find a verdict of whether having a
huge amount of heavy cream is terrible
for you or
not. Like compared to other calorie
sources, I couldn't tell. So, you can go
figure that out for yourself.
It was of all the things I could have
used though as the main calorie source.
It was the best thing that I found for
you. You're not going to make like a
It's not like you're going to just drink
a bottle of olive oil,
right? All right, enough on
that. Keto that felt really
different. I've never really bought into
that stuff, honestly.
I don't know how the hell ke
like do any elite athletes do
keto? I don't think so.
Right. Carbs are just a really good fuel
source. I don't know what that is.
Caffeine's
energy. To be fair, I'm not like I'm
usually doing my cardio fasted these
days just like out of convenience more
than anything. Coconut oil. Yeah, I
didn't try coconut oil.
It's You do kind of need something if
you're doing like a thousand calorie
version, you need something that you can
actually put into a beverage.
Um, I don't think you would want to just
drink like 500 calories of coconut oil.
I think that would probably wreak havoc
way more than the uh heavy
cream. But yeah, I don't know. I So, I
had I was in the hospital for pneumonia
at the start of the year. It like I lost
like 18 pounds. It was really bad. And I
couldn't train for like two months. So,
I'm trying to get my body weight back
up. Um, I developed that mug before that
from when I was trying to get from like
175 up to 190 lbs. And I did. It worked.
Um, but I just I haven't been training
hard enough to need it again yet. But I
think I will probably do some revisions
on it the next time I try to uh really
get seriously back to that level.
But I can't I can't do that while I'm
working the hours that I'm working at
the moment, right? Like I can't go do a
two hour workout and then immediately be
back on it. It's going to take me like
another hour and a half to recover. So
it ends up being like four hours out of
my day. So I'm kind of just doing like
I'm going for like a pretty decently
good run a few times a week. I'm doing
some intervals. I'm getting my V2 max
back. I'm doing a 10K on the weekend.
And then I'm doing like a few lifting
sessions, mostly compounds throughout
the week.
Takes two weeks for your body to get
back on
it. Back on
what? On like heavy exercise routine.
No. No. Cuz even when I was adapted, it
was still it was a part-time job. It was
literally a part-time job. I mean, it
saved my life. Like I would have been
dead to pneumonia. So, it was absolutely
worth it, but it's literally a part-time
job. I was doing like depending on the
this like cycle I was doing anywhere
from like 25 to 45 miles a week and then
I was doing on top of that like probably
eight hours of mostly eight hours maybe
more like six hours worth of probably
eight hours of like hard mostly heavy
compound lifts powerlifting style
training. So it was it was literally a
parttime job.
Because it's not you can't just time all
the exercise together, right? You also
have to time
like like the recovery like you just
move slower for the next hour and a half
after you finish like a hard
workout. I am looking forward to getting
back into that. But that will be the
goal is to ship one like to ship the
next update first and then I get to take
a little bit of a taper back, you know,
get myself some fitness, get my head
clear, and then think about what to do
next with
puffer. Don't do much cardio trying to
do six
days. Push below twice end of the day.
So the thing that made it click for me
with the cardio
um I didn't run at all. So, I hit I hit
my for plate deadlift for the first time
two three years ago
and I realized I could not run a
mile and it only takes six months to
train for a marathon at most. So, it's
like okay, I've trained to the point
where it takes I know it takes like the
average person who doesn't have who's
not like genetically gifted as an
athlete. It takes like two or three
years to hit a four plate deadlift if
you're like under 200 lb. It only takes
six months to train for a marathon.
you should probably just put in the
investment and like get your health
where it needs to be. So, I did two
marathons. I did a 50k. I have the
article on the 50k, training for that
and stuff on X. That was hard. It was
kind of like a big personal
accomplishment for me over the summer.
And then, uh, I started doing, you know,
trying to get my 5K time back better
because that's like way easier to train
for. It's like way less time to train
for a good 5K. You still feel really
good. you know, it's like you're not
going to be super out of breath during
your longer sets lifting. Um, and then I
got pneumonia.
So, so I try to keep I try to keep the
stuff I talk about on the stream and on
X almost all about just AI. That's what
I do almost all of my time. But when I'm
not doing AI, it's usually fitness stuff
because it's really, really worth it.
And I do try to get people around here
to make sure that they're staying in
shape because, you know,
you spend 12 hours a day at your desk
that you better be keeping in shape. And
it was it was literally it was 10 hours
and 40 minutes streamed on
Saturday. It was literally like get up,
stream breakfast, stream dinner, stream
bed.
I will say that when I do resume that
mug though, I am going to look a little
bit more seriously into
um cream versus other fat sources for
that because I don't know if that's
really bad for you long term or
not. It's better than a lot of the other
stuff, but might be able to do better
still. Probably could be half cream,
half coconut oil or something like that.
That would also work and be less
terrible maybe. I don't
know. Okay, let's actually let's
actually do a little bit of depth here.
Let's actually do a little bit of depth
here.
Um, I'm like thinking about this thing
and I'm a little sketched out with the
way that this is supposed to work. It
seems like
it's I know what I'm going to do though.
I'm going to implement it. I'm going to
get it to work in puffer.
If it gives us good like sample
efficiency
performance, I will think about how fast
I could theoretically make this
thing and then we'll do the trade-offs
for it. If it if the slow implementation
done correctly isn't much better than
what we have now, which is also faster,
then it's going to be a no.
It does have the potential though to be
a substantially better I would
say and it doesn't have the
um it kind of has like a
constant it has a constant cost to it.
This is not like quadratic attention or
anything, but the fact that they say
this is comparable to attention based
mechanisms is weird to me because it
doesn't seem like it should be able to
be. Uh, you put this in the wrong spot,
dummy. This goes
here. This gets
there.
this. Yeah, like this.
probably messed this up as well, didn't
you? Yes.
Self
equals that's all I wanted to do. Now I
will be able to get this thing
from
config. Uh we just use breakout as our
test here, right? That's the
play. So we just put TTPT
uh so that we don't have to deal with
crazy state
shenanigans. I'm going to make this one
process.
They should still absolutely train if we
do this
right. This is not going to run at all.
But we will uh you
know
change when we get to
there. Oh, I guess you don't even need
Hang
on. Yeah, you can actually be a little
bit different with this. So this has got
to be forward
frame
forward. For forward, you can kind of
just take this piece, can't you?
The only thing I don't know here is how
I'm going to get this
state. I mean, I can kind of just
special case this initially, right?
Like if I just do
this, we'll just do like
um initial was it was
state we'll do like Yes.
like that.
Let's just
do
like thing is this needs to be
continually updated,
right? So we can just do um
[Music]
And then if we just call it TTT
state
state then this is has observations.
So I believe you just call
encode. Yeah, you literally just call
encode,
right? Like this. This gives you hidden
and then you call
decode. This should be easy enough to
get working.
like
this cannot be multiplied.
is the multiplication backwards.
Wait, or does it just need a
transpose? The multiplication seems
backwards to
me. Maybe this is they did it for batch
size
one. I think they probably did it for
batch size one, right? Because it
doesn't make any sense.
I don't know why I'm using the stupid
app symbol
uh notation either. I really don't like
it. Two
devices. Okay.
Is there a torch with Brad or something?
Can you just do with torchenable
grad? You probably can do torch
with torch.
Let me see what this uh needs to be
fiddled with.
So the task loss depends on
K
V. You're supposed to back propagate
through graph function with respect to
the first
R which is model.
So, are they only back propagating this
linear layer? Is that the
idea? I think that's what this is saying
that you're only back propagating the
linear layer. That would make sense,
right? I think that's the point of this.
So, can I just do like with enable
grad like can I just do
this because then the only thing that's
getting back is the linear layer, right?
That should be the only thing that has
radiance.
That does give you a valid output,
right? That kind of just
runs. All right. I mean, we're happy
with that. That does like that is valid
code
technically. And then we just have to
figure this out for
uh for training. We also have to get
the instantiation
correct. Not really. This will update in
place,
right? Yeah, this will update in place.
So, we don't even have to touch
this.
Okay. You know, I'm sort of warming up
to this. This is not this is not
terrible. Like I've seen far far worse
stuff. So let's just
say we take this piece of
code, we replace this
here like that.
Maybe. And now all this needs
is
state.tt
state. That's all this needs, right?
And you just call in its
state probably per sequence,
right? So you probably do this
like well this is already a sequence
model. So like you can do this
here. Hang on. There's a bunch of messy
code from me
yesterday. Probably like right here,
right? Because it has to get reset every
sequence. Uh, and then this
is and then this gets forward trained
on like this.
Okay. And then this works except that
you're missing a for loop now.
Right. So,
right. The only place that I expect this
to get
is right
here. No attribute
state. Oh, wait. Yeah, you already did
this.
Yeah. So I think
only the only place you need the for
loop is on this model, right?
Uh,
what? How's this one time
step? Please
explain. Okay, let me go figure that
out.
All
right. Oh, right. Here.
rapper. There we
go. Yeah. So, the thing that's going to
kill the per here is that we need to
write a for
Don't we just have
TT?
So yeah, we don't use any of this. This
is just for
Oh, wait. But then we
want look at the freaking code
again. No, it is the way that this is
written. You do want this inside the
loop as well.
So this is
now model of train
view. Oh, but now this is really
awkward, isn't it?
Because you need like a stop bra or
something.
Does PyTorch have
stopped? Is it just
detach? Detach doesn't do in place.
Right.
New
tensor detached.
Okay. Will never
require. So this could just be detach
here,
right? Train view. Detach.
And it's train
view of T specifically
detach. And then this is model output
with test
view. This is like
dec. And then you zero grad step
whatever. Uh something I I did something
wrong
here. Train view. This is supposed to be
label
view. Yeah, this is label view.
I messed it
up. I must have messed up up top then.
Right. So this
is All right. So now we
have test view.
or actually it should just be
this not something like this
thing. Okay. Okay. And then you just do
hidden equals to forge step
hidden. No weird model. No weird weird
model. It does run
Oh, is that how it
works? Yes, it is.
trying to backward through a graph a
second time.
Really?
Can you not like detach it here? Does it
have to be something else?
I thought
like surely model output should require
a gradient,
right? Yeah, this requires a
gradient. Yeah, that works.
Okay. So,
um Oh, you
[__]
Uh yeah,
[__] All right.
Yeah, now we just get some reshape
bugs.
Shape. Yeah, I don't know about that one
here. I don't know about that shape.
That seems a little
wrong. That still seems a little
wrong. This
is still wrong.
Oh, no. Is
it? I think that it is correct now,
right? Yeah. No, I think this is
correct. It just so happens that both
dims are 128. I thought it was like some
weird matrix bug.
Time
batch
samples. One of these. What does it say?
Been modified by an in place operation.
Porch. Auto grad.
It's saying that it's like one of these,
right? This
gets train
view
train. This can just
be attached train of h that's probably
faster as well.
You zero the gradient
here.
Steps test
view hidden of
T at Q.
And then it's linear. Is this this is
correct?
Right. When we append
this, I don't do any in place
ops unless I'm leaking a variable here
somehow. But
um you don't use model output.
Right. Hidden of
T at
Q. Oh, well, the model's going to
change,
right? Oh, that's really bad.
Hang on.
How are you supposed to back propagate
through the model
now? Like this thing here gets changed
in place. That's the issue.
Are you just
screwed? I think the way this thing is
written, you're just screwed.
You can't back prop this forward pass,
right?
Can you clone a model?
I do something like this.
Okay. Like this technically runs
Let before I run like this and track it,
let me just make sure I'm not being
stupid. Let me just make sure I'm not
being stupid here.
The first of these is none.
Yeah, I'm concerned that this is
breaking our our linear layer.
Oh no, that is getting
framed. Weight is
different. I guess we can run it.
the way I did this makes
sense. I think it does, right?
We'll see if it trains and just trains
slowly or
whatever. But
um I think that this should make sense.
This thing doesn't have any
nonlinearities in it at all.
Right.
Yeah. Not the narrative at all.
The thing that's weird to me about this
model, right, is this predict
here. The way that this thing is
written, this model changes, right?
The whole point of this is that the
model updates every
step. Yeah, that's really wonky.
So this guy seems to think that you can
parallelize this over time.
Okay, I'm I'm going to have to like chat
through this one because this doesn't
make sense to
me. Uh, this is going up. It is just
going up incredibly slowly, it seems.
So, here's what I'm going to do. I'm
going to set this to run for like way
longer. Yes. I'm going to give it a rel
as
well. We give it two relu
maybe. I think it has a yellow already,
doesn't
it? I think it Yeah, it does have a
yellow there. Okay. So, we're going to
give it an extra
[Music]
yellow on the decoder, I guess.
Just give it an extra yellow on the
decoder. And make sure I do that right.
Just got to make sure I do the same
thing over
here.
Let's think 800 million step because why
not? And then we will see what that
does. Let me make sure it
runs. And then uh the plan here, I'm
going to get breakfast. I'm going to get
some exercise. I'm going to do a few
things.
Um, I guess I don't
have this. So, I'm guess they don't have
it for everything.
Whatever.
Okay. Should do
something. Oh, this model is tiny now.
64k
per. Do we have to scale it?
You kind of
can't. Okay. Well, we'll leave it alone
for now. We'll see what this does. Um,
I'm going to get some breakfast. I'm
going to get some exercise. Uh, then I
will be back in the
probably early
afternoon, a couple hours, two, three
hours. Uh, and then I will be
doing maybe more on this. I've got a few
other things to work on. We've got VRays
to finish. We've got Diane to work on.
We've got infrastructure to do. We've
got a lot a lot of things to do today.
So, uh, thanks for tuning into the
morning
session. All my stuff's at puffer.ai.
This is all open source. If you'd like
to help me out for free, just start the
repo. If you want to get involved with
development, join the Discord. And you
can find more RL content from me on X as
well, offer.ai. So, thanks. So,